# Installing Ruby

Before we can start programming in Ruby, we need to install it. The installation process is a little different depending on which operating system that you're using. You can find all the links in the resources section.

If you're using Windows, then the best way is probably to use the **Ruby Installer** for Windows. All you need to do is click on the Download button, and follow the instructions.

If you're using a Mac, then Ruby is already installed by default, although, it's probably not the latest version. To make sure you have the latest version of Ruby, use Homebrew:

```
brew install ruby
```

and then follow the instructions on the screen.

# Managing Multiple Versions of Ruby

If you want to manage multiple versions of Ruby or you're using Linux, then the best option will be to use a version manager. There are many of these available including the **Ruby Version Manager (RVM)** or **rbend**.

# Command Prompts in Terminal

You'll find that most of the installations of Ruby that you need to use are command prompts in a terminal. This is very common, and you'll often find yourself using the command line to install programs when working with Ruby. If you're using Linux or OSX then it's likely that you've come across a terminal before.

If you haven't used the terminal before, then don't worry. I know it can seem a bit scary and daunting at first, but you'll soon find there's nothing to it and it will quickly seem like second nature.

We're going to use the terminal now to check that our installation of Ruby was successful:

```
ruby -v
```

After pressing `Enter`, you should see the version of Ruby that was installed.