# Creating a Ruby web application.

Our final task in this lesson is to create a Ruby web application.

To get started, we need to create a new file called *hello_sinatra.rb*. It contains the following code:

```ruby
require 'sinatra'

get '/hello' do
  'Hello Sinatra!'
end
```

The first line is used to load the code from the Sinatra gem that we installed previously. This will add all the functionality from the Sinatra gem into our program.

The next part here is what's known as a **route handler** in Sinatra. This is also an example of what's called a **block** in Ruby. `get` signifies the **HTTP verb** that will be used by the browser to get the web page. The string "/hello" is the route that we will place in the address bar in the browser to denote which page we want to get. So basically when this string "/hello" is placed in the address bar, it will run the code in the block.

The block starts with the `do` keyword and finishes with the `end` keyword; everything between those two words is the block of code that we want to run. We don't need to use the `puts` command this time, because Sinatra will automatically output the last line of code in the route handler.

# Testing the Application

Open up a terminal and type

```
ruby hello_sinatra.rb
```

You'll see that Sinatra has started a web server - it means that we can now access the application in a browser.

So open up the browser and enter `http://localhost:4567/hello`.

* `localhost` is the domain that's used by web servers that run on your own computer. This application isn't available on the internet, just locally on your own computer.
* `:4567` is the port that Sinatra uses.
* `/hello` is the route that we used at the start of the route handler.

We've successfully built a rather simple web application, congratulations! Sinatra has allowed us to adapt our previous program by introducing the concept of a route handler. The actual code inside it is very similar to what we used before. This means that it shouldn't be too difficult to adapt any Ruby program into a web application using Sinatra, which is exactly what we're going to be doing for the rest of this course.