# Numbers in IRB

We're going to have a look at using **numbers** in IRB. Open up your terminal and start up IRB.

For example, we can type

```ruby
4 + 5
```

to sum those numbers.

What might not be as clear at first though, is that `4` and `5` are both `Integer` objects, and the plus symbol is actually a method.

# Dot Syntax

We saw in the previous lesson how to call a method using the dot syntax, and you can do the same here:

```ruby
4.+(5)
```

So, `4` is the object calling the method, the plus sign is the name of the method, and `5` is an argument. This however doesn't look much like a sum, so Ruby lets us write this in a more natural way, just like how we would normally write arithmetic. This is known as **syntactic sugar**, where a method can be written in a nicer looking way.

# Arithmetic Operations

Ruby has lots of other arithmetic operations, such as subtraction (`-`), multiplication (`*`) and division (`/`).

# Float

Have a look at this example

```ruby
9 / 2 # returns "4"
```

This is incorrect, because `4.5` should be returned not `4`. This is because `9` and `2` are both integers, and this means that the solution to `9 / 2` will only give the integer part of the answer.

To get the correct answer, we need to use a different type of number object, called a **float**. To use floats instead of integers, all we need to do is write `9` as `9.0` instead:

```ruby
9.0 / 2
```

Now Ruby returns the correct answer of `4.5`.

# Odd or Even

Ruby also gives us methods to find out if a number is odd or even:

```ruby
42.even?
33.odd?
```

These are examples of **boolean methods** that only return the results of `true` or `false`, and they will usually have a question mark character on the end, which makes them easier to spot.

# GCD method.

Ruby can also do some quite cool mathematical stuff, like finding the greatest common divisor of two numbers using the `gcd` method. So, if we wanted to know the largest integer that divides into both `12` and `20`, we would write:

```ruby
12.gcd(20)
```

# LCM Method

There is also a similar `lcm` method, which finds the lowest common multiple of two integers:

```ruby
15.lcm(20)
```

# to_s method

One last integer method that we're going to look at is the `to_s` method, with stands for "to string". It takes an integer and converts it into a string representation of that integer:

```ruby
7.to_s
```

This allows us to treat the number like a string so that we can use the string methods on it that we learned in the last lesson.

# to_i Method

There is also an equivalent method for strings called `to_i`, which turns a string into an integer:

```ruby
"42".to_i
```

You have to be careful with this method, though, because if the string doesn't actually contain any numbers, then it will just return `0`:

```ruby
"Hi".to_i
```

However, if you enter a string that starts with a number value, then it will return just that number from the beginning:

```ruby
"221 B Baker St".to_i # returns 221
```

# Rand method

It's often useful to generate a random number. This is easy to do in Ruby using the `rand` method. This will generate a floating point number between `0` and `1.0`:

```ruby
rand
```

If you provide an integer as the argument to this method, then it will generate a random integer between `0` and an integer up to the argument provided, but not including that argument:

```ruby
rand(6)
```

This going to return a random number from `0` to `5`, so if you instead wish to return a number from `1` to `6`, you'll have to add `1`:

```ruby
rand(6) + 1
```

However Ruby provides a much nicer way of generating a random number from `1` to `6`. What we can do is enter a range of values as the argument to the `rand` method:

```ruby
rand(1..6)
```

This means "choose a random number from 1 to 6, inclusive".